The series is set in a dystopian city called New London where humanity is evolved significantly and drastically human beings no longer reproduce and each fetus is created in a lab and designated as a particular cast . The entire population of New London is Implanted with a bionic eye chip known as Indra which is supposedly responsible for maintaining transparency in the city . Because of the chip each inhabitant can see what others are doing whether it be at work or at the toilet . Anyone who feels even a hint of any negative emotion such as sadness, fear or anxiety need simply to take a happy pill called Soma in a day one might even eat 100 Somas A minority of the savage lands have become tired of being treated as animals by the new Londoners . They want to put an end to it all and want to massacre the new world's scumbags . Bernard is still disoriented and confused by the visions he saw earlier that day . The director of new London ed calls Bernard that he is unfit to be an alpha plus because he is not assertive and demanding enough . Linina empathizes with him and decides to help him out She agrees to go to savage lands together with him The next morning they board a rocket which takes them to their destination in less than 12 minutes . John has been kept confined in a room where he keeps screaming about his mother Add and Mustafa Monde the most intelligent person in all the land Observe him closely and deduce that the savages are extremely weak When it comes to dealing with someone's demise Monde is empathetic and decides to let him integrate into new London for his heroics . John is scared of even the basic amenities like the elevator and the tall skyscrapers and even the Soma He rejects all of them and just remains silent . After the incident at Savage Lance Lannina has started behaving strangely She has always lost in her thoughts and behaves strangely after the incident . On the other hand, Mustafa Maunt tells Bernard that their director Ed Accidentally fell to his death And instead reveals that he was actually John's father . Maunt mentions that this is why they have to integrate John into their society as soon as possible Because it is the least he deserves Bernard agrees .